Add an example gallery to the Universal Gateway section (#1365)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/universal-gateway/examples/maintenance-mode.mdx

---
title: "Deploy a Zero-Code Maintenance Mode for Your Services"
sidebar_label: Maintenence Mode
description: Learn how to use Traffic Policy to immediately deploy a consistent maintenance message without needing to spin up a new backend service or change DNS records.
---

import ReserveDomain from "./snippets/_reserve-domain.mdx";
import CloudEndpoint from "./snippets/_cloud-endpoint.mdx";
import TryOut from "./snippets/_try-out.mdx";
import Back from "./snippets/_back-to-examples.mdx";

Whenever you're making infrastructure changes, a major upgrade to your services during planned downtime, or experiencing an incident, you still want to maintain a public-facing presence on your endpoints to tell customers what's going on.

> With ngrok, you can use Traffic Policy and the [`custom-response`](https://ngrok.com/docs/traffic-policy/actions/custom-response/) action to immediately deploy a consistent maintenance message without needing to spin up a new backend service or change DNS records to point to an third-party app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With ngrok, you can use Traffic Policy and the [`custom-response`](https://ngrok.com/docs/traffic-policy/actions/custom-response/) action to immediately deploy a consistent maintenance message without needing to spin up a new backend service or change DNS records to point to a third-party app.
```

```

## 2. Reserve a domain

<ReserveDomain />

## 3. Create a Cloud Endpoint

<CloudEndpoint />

## 4. Create a maintenance page on your Cloud Endpoint with Traffic Policy

While still viewing your new cloud endpoint in the dashboard, copy and paste the policy below into the Traffic Policy editor.

```yaml
on_http_request:
  - actions:
      - type: custom-response
        config:
          body: "We're currently undergoing maintenance. Please check back later!"
  - actions:
      - type: forward-internal
        config:
          url: https://service.internal
```

### What's happening here?

This policy "interrupts" every request by providing a custom response containing your maintenance message.

When your maintenance window is over and you're ready to route traffic to your upstream service, remove or comment out the `custom-response` action.

```yaml
on_http_request:
  #- actions:
  #    - type: custom-response
  #      config:
  #        body: "We're currently undergoing maintenance. Please check back later!"
  - actions:
      - type: forward-internal
        config:
          url: https://service.internal
```

## 5. Try out your endpoint

<TryOut />

## What's next?

> - Read more about [Traffic Policy](/docs/traffic-policy) and its [core concepts](/docs/traffic-policy/concepts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn more about using Traffic Policy to return custom responses by [trying out our examples](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/custom-response/#examples).
```
I think it might be more useful for us to point them directly to the parts of the Traffic Policy docs that are pertinent to what's being discussed on this page.
